## 17.8 PSG Hook-Up Procedures

### 17.8.1 Step 1: Attachment of ECG Electrodes

* White (-) electrode 3-5 cm. (2 finger breadths) below midpoint of right clavicle.
* Red (+) electrode below the left breast crease, in line with the midpoint of the left clavicle.

MISSING_IMAGE

1. Feed electrode end of the wire down under the clothing.
2. Remove electrode from sealed package (e.g., Medtronic Medclear ECG electrodes). Snap electrode to lead wire **before** applying to subject’s skin.
3. Prepare the marked sites by lightly abrading with prep gel.  Remove excess prep gel before placing the electrode.  Remove backing from electrode and place gel electrode on cleansed sites, with gel side down.
4. Form a small "stress" loop with the wire immediately feeding the electrode, secure with a small amount of tape.
5. Indicate the ECG placement used on the **Signal Verification Form**.

<u>When determining this site, please be sensitive to patient modesty issues; lift only as much of the upper garment as necessary to determine placement and afford secure attachment of this electrode.</u> If modesty issues are of concern use alternative placement described below:

Below midpoint of left clavical, for the red (+) electrode can be used if the participant is uncomfortable with the standard placement, or if site cannot be determined due to body mass.  This alternate placement is called subclavicular.


<div class="center">
<div class="btn-group">
  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography/17-07-suggested-order-psg-hookup.md" class="btn btn-default">
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-left"></span>
    17.7 Suggested Order of PSG Hook-Up
  </a>

  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography" class="btn btn-default">
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-up"></span>
    Polysomnography
  </a>

  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography/17-08-02-step2.md" class="btn btn-success">
    17.8.2 Step 2: Placement of Respiratory Bands
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-right"></span>
  </a>
</div>
</div>
