## 17.8.5 Step 5: Attach Oximeter

The finger oximeter records pulse and oxygen saturation using a small light that shines through the finger. Oximeter should be placed on the ring finger of the non-dominant hand. (If large rings are worn, may use the middle or index fingers.)  Colored nail polish defeats the function of the oximeter.  Colored nail polish must be removed from the finger prior to sensor attachment.

### 17.8.5.1 Disposable Probe

1. Grip the tabs on the sensor’s bottom adhesive cover and peel the adhesive cover off.
2. Place the finger into the sensor nail-side up with the tip of the centerline mark in the curved area.
3. Wrap the tape firmly around the finger. The fingernail should not be covered with tape during this step.
4. Fold the sensor's top over the top of the finger and make sure the two sides are vertically aligned. <u>Do not</u> stretch the tape while applying the sensor. This may cause inaccurate readings or skin blister. Be sure that the emitting and receiving diodes directly “face” each other.
5. After securing oximeter sensor, ask the participant if any throbbing is felt. If so, reapply, loosening tape.
6. Pass the oximeter cable over the surface of the hand creating a circular “stress” loop, also securing with tape.
7. Use several additional pieces of tape along the hand and lower arm, securing loose areas of cable (to prevent the cable from getting tugged.)
8. Check that the participant can move/bend his hand in all directions; if not, reapply, with more “slack” in the cabling.

### 17.8.5.2 Non-Disposable Probe

1. Place probe, white side against adhesive, on the surface of a piece of gauze tape cut so that its width extends approximately .5 cm. on either side of the probe (placed in the middle of the tape) and its length is approximately 1 cm. longer than each top and bottom edge of the probe.
2. Place the probe (covered with this tape) over the top of finger with light sensor nail side up. Be sure that the receiving circle directly "faces” the light-emitting circle.
3. Place a second piece of gauze tape around the probe (perpendicular to the first tape), spiraling the tape so the beginning and end are displaced approximately .5-1.0 cm. (This prevents perfusion problems to the finger).
4. To further secure, place Posey wrap around sensor/finger, so that the sensor is securely in place but not tight.
5. After securing oximeter sensor, ask the participant if any throbbing is felt. If so, reapply, loosening tape.
6. Pass the oximeter cable over the surface of the hand creating a circular “stress” loop, also securing with tape.
7. Use several additional pieces of tape along the hand and lower arm, securing loose areas of cable (to prevent the cable from getting tugged.)
8. Check that the participant can move/bend his hand in all directions; if not, reapply, with more “slack” in the cabling.


<div class="center">
<div class="btn-group">
  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography/17-08-04-step4.md" class="btn btn-default">
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-left"></span>
    17.8.4 Step 4: Attach the Position Sensor
  </a>

  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography" class="btn btn-default">
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-up"></span>
    Polysomnography
  </a>

  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography/17-08-06-step6.md" class="btn btn-success">
    17.8.6 Step 6: Attach Thermistor
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-right"></span>
  </a>
</div>
</div>
