## 17.8.2 Step 2: Placement of Respiratory Bands

* Chest Lead is Yellow. Plug into yellow hole in SUMMIT unit. This will turn the unit on.
* Abdominal Lead is Blue. Plug into blue hole in SUMMIT unit.
* SUM channel will activate after it averages 30-40 regular breaths from the patient.

MISSING_IMAGE

1. Place the **chest band** under the left armpit, with the lead wire facing upwards. The large part of the inductance band should be placed from sternum to backbone on the patient’s left side. Adjust the black extender belt so the belt is secure, but not tight. Run wires upwards and drape over the shoulder. The chest band lead is attached to the interface box using the yellow lead.
2. The **abdominal band** should be around the umbilicus (belly button) or, if this position is not possible, below the lower edge of the left rib cage with the blue lead wire facing upwards.  Run wires upwards and drape over the shoulder. The abdominal band lead is attached to the interface box using the blue lead.
3. The **SUM** channel is created by averaging 30-40 breaths. If the SUM channel has not activated on the recording, a ‘bad cal’ light will flash orange on the SUMMIT unit. Remove either the blue or yellow lead and replace to reset the SUM calibration. This will take 5 to 10 minutes.

* Incorrect application of respiratory bands can cause very poor signals.
* Do not restrict the participant’s comfort or breathing.


<div class="center">
<div class="btn-group">
  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography/17-08-01-step1.md" class="btn btn-default">
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-left"></span>
    17.8.1 Step 1: Attachment of ECG Electrodes
  </a>

  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography" class="btn btn-default">
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-up"></span>
    Polysomnography
  </a>

  <a href=":pages_path:/manuals/polysomnography/17-08-03-00-step3.md" class="btn btn-success">
    17.8.3 Step 3: Apply EEG Scalp Electrodes (Gold Disk)
    <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-right"></span>
  </a>
</div>
</div>
